# CodeFellows2016Python

### By Jordan Schatzman

##### This module is designed to handle an input tab separated values (TSV) file called studentstsv.txt.  The file has 4 columns, student, gpa, grade and teacher.  Upon running the module from the command line, a global variable called studentdata is created.  It is an array of tuples, and we choose to use a tuple to ensure value ordering.  Once the input file has been processed, several global variables are created including a list of distinct students, teachers and grades.  We will use a set to capture this information, and it enforces uniqueness of its contents and it's more efficient than appending to a list.  Other variables include a dictionary with teachers as keys and number of students as values.  This module assumes that the input file contains all the current students and teachers.

##### Before any other work is done, a function called emptycheck is run.  This function will return a message and throw an error if there are no students or no teachers in the input file.  This can be tested by replacing the inputfile with a file called emptyschooltest.txt.  Once this function has completed, another function called createintroreport is called.  As instructed, this function will print the student count, teacher count and average gpa of the entire school.  Then, a function called userinput is called.  This function will accept a user input and then run a function to display either an average GPA report by grade or by grade and teacher.  The user can also exit the program at this point as well if desired.

#####  The user can also elect to add a new student or teacher by using the addteacher and addstudent functions.  If addstudent is called, the user will be asked to input a new student's name.  Then, the teacher will be chosen.  If the chosen teacher already has a full class of 10 students, then another teacher of the same grade will be selected.  A random GPA will be assigned to the student and a new entry will be entered into studentdata along with the other relevant variables.  If there are no available teachers for the student's grade, the user will be informed that there is available place for the student.  If the addteacher function is called, the user will simply be prompted to enter a teacher name, and a random grade will be assigned.

##### Currently, when running the module from the commmand line, addteacher and addstudent will not be called.  At the bottom of the script, they are commented out, but this can easily be altered and rearranged.  Please be aware that the studentdata will be restored to its original state when the module is called.  Finally, if the "roll_call" paramater is added, a function called rollcall will run which lists out all the students by grade.

##### To run the file in the command line, simply enter "python students2.py" with or without the roll_call parameter.